# MLB-Salaries
The world of sports is an exciting place, especially Major League Baseball, given its high demand in recent years to new stars in the game and new ownership from billionaires across the globe. An owner’s investment into the team can influence a lot of how a team performs or lack thereof, and many times the best baseball teams are not necessarily the highest paid. I can dive into the stats to look at the impact of baseball player salaries. 

First and foremost, we understand the impact the New York Yankees franchise, team and owner has had since the dawn of the game. Based on my analysis, it was clear the Yankees were spending more money than anyone else and had the highest payrolls from 2010, 2013, 2015 and 2016 in the history of the game. There was one player in particular that affected these salary totals - Alex Rodriguez. While during his recent signing with the team, his salary impacted 15 - 17% of the entire team’s payroll from 2009 - 2012. Clearly, the Yankees felt that in order to win, they could pay money to high caliber players. And proven more thoroughly as analyzed in a reg and kde plot of the impact of these salaries compared to the Boston Red Sox (second highest overall team salary), the Yankees salaries per players grew at a faster pace than the Red Sox or any other team during the 2000 decade and into 2010s. In fact the mean contract of 1.8M in 1990s and then increased to 6.37M in 2000 and 7.4M in 2010s. 

We can clearly understand that the success of the New York Yankees in the 1990s led to a substantial increase in popularity, wealth and success of the team. Although, many fans will tell you that spending money doesn’t win World Series (WS) championships as the Yankees only captured 1 championship in 2009 since winning 4 of 5 years (96, 98, 99, 00). Their rivals in Boston, have experienced more success, winning 4 WS since 2004 but paying their players substantially less on average. It goes to show that paying more for better individual players doesn’t bring your team the most success. 

